Amazon RDS is a managed relational database service provided by AWS. It makes it easier to set up, operate, and scale relational databases in the AWS cloud. Some of its important features include Dashboard, Databases, Query Editor, Performance Insights, and Snapshots among many others.
The different Database engines that are supported by RDS are:
1. MySQL
2. SQL Server (this is offered by MS)
3. PostgreSQL (it is used by data anaylitical works, so it will have IOPs high input/output opreation)
4. Oracle
5. MariaDB
6. Amazon Aurora (this is offered by AWS itself)
7. Amazon RDS Custom (Here we can take our own database version, if needed or else we can contact the AWS to come and install thier RDS software layer on our on-premises server)

DB instances
A DB instance is an isolated database environment in the AWS Cloud. The basic building block of Amazon RDS is the DB instance.
or
DB instance is a empty server space where we can alot a space for "DB engine" to run.

DB engines
A DB engine is the specific relational database software that runs on your DB instance. Amazon RDS currently supports the following engines:
MySQL
MariaDB
PostgreSQL
Oracle
Microsoft SQL Server

DB instance classes(means choosing how much computing power, memory/ram capacity, storage disk classes)
A DB instance class determines the computation and memory capacity of a DB instance. A DB instance class consists of both the DB instance type and the size. Each instance type offers different compute, memory, and storage capabilities. 

DB instance storage 
Amazon EBS provides durable, block-level storage volumes that you can attach to a running
instance. DB instance storage comes in the following types:
General Purpose (SSD)
Provisioned IOPS (PIOPS)
Magnetic

What is database cluster?
It is nothing but many database instances grouped together is called DB cluster (or) Collection of DB instances is called DB cluster

to connect to the rds we use the command
-> mysql -h localhost/end point of rds -u root/master name -p

to see databases
-> show databases;
to select the database
-> use DBname ;
